we have become so desensitized to all
the news it piles up each and every day
and we just say whatever it's not going
to be any change there's nothing's going
to happen we got to avoid it we got to
ignore it look over there it's a shiny
object and yet so much is going on and
I'm going to show you why this is such a
concern what's on your mind we're going
to discuss that first you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
in today's video I want to talk about my
favorite topic inflation who causes it
oh don't don't look over there don't
look at the man behind the curtain the
most important financial problem facing
us families look High Cost of Living and
inflation this is it and then in a
second place far far second place is the
cost of owning a renting a home it's the
same what about this number three too
much debt or not enough money to pay
debts
then you get into health care then you
get into lack of money or low wages and
en energy costs and so on that's pretty
serious when you think about it okay so
this is what people are thinking of not
having enough cash not having enough
cash and what has happened right now is
very different than what we had
experienced let's say
2019 yes of course
it's always getting more expensive but
the surge has been so it's like as if
it's a recession and people lost their
jobs during those periods of time you
have you know This calamity where
everybody's you know the food bank
everything you know all that stuff but
it's technically not a recession and
technically it's you know the
unemployment is so fantastic it's so
low and what people can afford their
Essentials the
necessities and at the same time you
could look at two factors all really
just basically crushing you from one
side and the other or from top and
bottom you have the Federal Reserve
print into currency into infinity or
confetti and then you can see what the
government is doing spending like
there's no tomorrow it's creating a
perfect storm that's making it more and
more difficult for people just to get by
we have this chart here percent of
Americans with no retirement savings and
certainly of course you know younger if
you're 18 to 29 that's probably not a
first priority you're probably more
worried about getting a home and so on
but once you get into your 40s you would
think that people would start to be able
to accumulate but now not the case and I
think you know the people that are in
this younger age they're going to get
into their 40s and none of them or you
know the vast majority of people will be
unable to I think the percentages are
just going to get worse that is
frightening very frightening because you
may have people going into the the
workforce and at least they'll try to
never leave the workforce and that's a
huge difference than what we had before
was as as those people leave the
workforce that opens up a job for
somebody else younger but if that
doesn't happen then you got an issue
okay because there's more and more
people that are technically able to work
but not able to find the
job all right or at least one that pays
the bills this is the problem the simple
reason why 80% of Americans can't save
money look you can see people just don't
have enough cash because
they're plain and simple I mean the the
wages for a lot of the jobs haven't kept
up with the rate at which they've
devalued the currency and made
everything more expensive a lot of
people just want to point fingers and
they say look MC it's
McDonald's that's the problem because
they increase their
prices well they may like I don't know
about their profit margins
specifically but a lot of these
companies maybe they did increase more
than they needed to but we all know that
input costs have risen we know that what
was the first thing they did they
increased in California they said okay
all the fast food workers you're making
20 bucks an hour now immediately they
raise their prices because they just
have a calculation okay this is the
amount we've got to do to get back to
where we
were that's just a matter of fact so the
point is the price of stuff of
everything has risen but nobody wants to
look at the fact that they've been
punishing this currency an often
overlooked jobs indicator points to deep
cracks in Canada's labor market but let
me show you something what's interesting
about this this is out of
Bloomberg is that
this is what people don't understand
about the US Labor Market this is huge
okay once you understand the reason I'm
showing you this is like this is so
hidden in the United States and I'm I'm
just found it here and I thought I have
to show my subscribers this because they
need to understand it and they probably
already do I mean I've talked about it
many many times before but it was just
interesting to see it written out like
this Canada's job market is less robust
than the country most country's most
Clos L watched employment indicator
suggests data from the payroll
employment survey this is a census of
all paid workers in Canada indicates the
country added a mere 177,000 jobs over
the six-month period ending in February
that's a far cry from the
183,000 reported in the labor force
survey pulls uh which pulls households
and is faster to publish the results do
you see that huge right this is exactly
what is done in the United States okay
when we actually calculate them all oh
yeah we got a big problem Oh but we just
do this little survey this little subset
and oh yeah yeah the numbers are never
accurate that's what goes on and every
time you can see like over the last uh
almost two years now there's been a
problem in the United States where it's
just going basically flatlining they're
saying yeah we're creating more jobs
more jobs yeah yeah yeah and and you can
see that number just getting bigger like
as if the population was like a billion
in in the US like you just look at this
thing it just keeps going up whereas the
survey which actually shows us the real
information it's just basically
flatlined for a couple years that is not
a good sign and it's the same in Canada
Europe don't even get me started it's
time to talk about the dirty word on
Wall Street as whiffs of stag infation
intrude on the markets all I wanted to
show you here was that stagflation is
the big concern you can't get growth but
you've got inflation this is the problem
that will sting it will sting and it and
it's likely to be persistent for a long
period of time okay because they weren't
willing to put interest rates up to the
level they needed to be to actually just
intentionally cause a problem cause a
crisis yes bad painful it sucks but
let's get over it real fast nope not
willing to do that okay well now you're
going to feel a big burden for a much
longer period of time the great Freight
recession has now lasted longer than the
2020 bull market to the uh the end of
one of the worst Freight markets in
history maybe closer than it appears uh
with Freight I was just told by my
supplier that uh prices are increasing
we'll see how that goes I didn't like
that one uh but the point
is uh when I look at this right here um
that could be a relation
to you know is it the Red Sea is it you
know what's happening around the world
what's what's going on there there could
be many factors here when we talk about
Freight uh but I can tell you right now
it is not cheap okay it is not cheap
California carrier and free brokerage
ceasing operations blaming
ab5 owner sites independent contractor
law states hostile operating environment
when you got this when you got less
competition when you have less
individuals and the businesses operating
everything in the end it means it's
going to be more expensive for people
that's it okay you see like it's there's
many factors here which are going into
this and then we get to this point here
thank you for staying with me until the
end of the video this is what we need to
really get into and that is America's
running out of money and nobody
cares not not nobody but you know that's
title of the article I know you and I
do and hilarious when when I see some
YouTubers talking about the debt doesn't
matter it's uh it is garbage it's
garbage but anyway looking at this in
miday the national debt was
$34.5 trillion the pace of the growth in
that debt is equal stunning
approximately $1 trillion is being added
to America's national debt every 100
days quite terrible it is uh I just want
to show you this as well this is this is
why it's much more important uh than
these um well you know these other
people out there that are spreading uh
this this nonsense but anyway that
that's besides the point each percentage
point of debt to GDP in increases
interest rates by about five basis
points that means less productivity and
therefore less economic growth you see
that so as the debt to GDP goes up the
economy slows down you get that that's
it that's it that's all you got to know
but no no the debt doesn't matter the
debt doesn't matter why will they keep
adding more debt every year yeah well
what's happening to real economic growth
or the real economy yeah there is no
growth oh the economy grew at 3 Pao was
saying look how good if you watch the uh
little clip there's some clips that have
surfaced from that meeting he was at the
conference he was at and it was
basically
saying he goes the economy is doing well
we've got 3% growth last year it was
doing well in comparison you know
comparison to the rest of the world
and look at the unemployment rate oh
it's so fantastic I mean it's great look
at the economy I mean to ignore the fact
that prices are so people can't afford
their anything today anything Food Bank
lines go down street people are apply
applying for one job that doesn't even
pay well and they're just there's like a
thousand applications 500
applications something is
broken and this is what they say to you
you know it's purposely done just to
just to stab you just like just to stab
you that's what it is and they love to
do this they love to do this it's it it
it's intentional this isn't you know a
bunch of incompetent people you know
thinking or or a bunch of Rich guys
sitting no no that's not what this is
this is to make you
know that you are a slave that you are a
servant to those at which you know the
pows of the world who who they are
reporting
to this is of course a big issue now I
can go down that
road okay I can go down that road and I
have before
but what can you do as an individual I
don't like you know more than anybody
else I get into the actual Solutions not
just talking about the data that's out
there look you see this look at the
writing on the wall more inflation's
coming your currency is being devalued
what can you do well the first thing
that you can do if you exist um let's
say you're in Canada let's say you're
outside the US a lot of times you could
be
earning other currencies whether that's
you know you're earning British pounds
you're earning uh US Dollars quickly
bring that in and hopefully you'll be
able to get that you know currency
diversification and Arbitrage that and
and benefit from it that's one thing you
do that by having an online business
okay uh at the same time you need to be
able to be mobile this very difficult
for a lot of people but being mobile is
going to give you some ability to
basically say look I've had enough of
this place I can't do it anymore more
the price of the homes are too expensive
the uh property taxes have gone up you
know for Toronto 99.5% in one year 99.5%
increase property taxes they just
smashed the hammer on everybody they
don't care right capital gains goes up
everything goes
up and at the same time people are
suffering to pay their stuff as it is
and so they say you know what we got to
do we got to push you down even further
it's like you're climbing you're
climbing you get to the top of the hill
and you look up and there's Jerome
Powell and Janet Yellen and they stomp
on you and you get boom and you go
rolling down the hill again
okay this is a time in which we cannot
get our Eye Off the Ball we have to work
as hard as we possibly can we got to put
our heads together and we got to do
everything that we can right now if you
can be growing a garden grow a garden it
might not make a big difference but look
in my case Okay growing food I haven't
done
anything but the herbs all came back so
imagine I've put zero into it and
already have been able to harvest from
it it's small yet it's small but for
somebody who eats the herbs every day
okay lot a lot of
them it helps and we got to do these
small things do you agree hit that
thumbs up if you don't make a comment
below and tell me why you hate me all
right either way I'll see you tomorrow
take care